---
layout: schedule
include: talk
title: Culturally Smart Cities? Smartness for Citizen Engagement, Artistic Intervention, Audience Development
speaker: marianne-ping-huang
session: s02
slides: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9tCS2R8WVYFTXBYc2ZnUnI4ZDQ"
---

How will data-driven citizen engagement and cultural, creative actors in the
digital transformation contribute to future smart city planning and open data
platforms provided by municipalities and governments?

The digitized holdings and archives of cultural heritage institutions provide
traces of cultural memory and intangible heritage, which are in focus for
audience development and identity building. But notably, new forms of
born-digital cultural data are generated by cultural institutions and
organizations as well as by the urban environments we live in and by. The focus
on born-digital data within the cultural creative field (and sectors) are
growing, and gap analysis of cultural creative statistics (cf. *KEA Feasibility
study on data collection and analysis in the cultural and creative sectors in
the EU*, September 2015) recommend supplementing existing statistics (EUROSTAT)
with semi structured (monitoring) data and data collection of unstructured data,
for better insight in how multilayered values - including artists’ interventions
and citizens engagement – is created in and through cultural creative
institutions, events and productions. Furthermore, value chains in the digital
transformation of arts and culture, creative neighborhoods and everyday urban
culture seem to instigate Digital Social Innovation, which is at the focal point
of e.g. the DSI4EU-project launched by the European Commission. But, cultural
data from urban living as well as digital social innovation are challenged with
the lack of measures for impact, pathways for sustainability and scalable
infrastructures.
