---
layout: schedule
include: talk
title: Building and Operating Services for Sensitive Data for Research and Clinical Usage
speaker: gard-thomassen
session: s02
slides: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9tCS2R8WVYFaDdvOXAzWEFObWc"
---

This talk will describe how the University of Oslo (UiO) are working to fill
the eInfrastructure gap for those researchers that work on collecting,
generating, analysing, sharing and storing (often large amounts of) sensitive
data. Since 2012 the IT Department of UiO along with UiO researchers have put
in a lot of time, money and effort to build services that are useful, secure
and flexible. The system is named TSD as this is the abbreviation for the
Norwegian equivalent of “Services for Sensitive Data”.

This service now hosts approx 1000 researchers, >1 PiB data, > 270 research
projects, a small HPC cluster and a means of collecting data through online
questionnaires or from smart-phone apps. TSD today is a partner with Elixir
Norway in the NeIC project Tryggve, and will continue as a partner in the
planned Tryggve2. Early in the process of setting up TSD we received a lot of
interest and focus from the Oslo University Hospital - Department of Medical
Genetics. This talk will address how a research eInfrastructure has managed to
grow large, and how and why the TSD expanded into delivering IT services for
clinical usage, and the benefits this brings for the clinicians and for TSD.

Further, a few of the most significant features and smartphone applications
connected to TSD will be discussed and demonstrated, and finally a glimpse into
the future of TSD will be given.
