---
layout: schedule
include: talk
title: NeIC and EISCAT_3D
speaker: john-white
session: s03
slides: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9tCS2R8WVYFSm5iTnFsTHh3dTQ"
---

The EISCAT_3D project will establish a system of distributed phased-array radars
that will enable comprehensive three-dimensional vector observations of the
atmosphere and ionosphere above Northern Fenno- Scandinavia. The use of new
radar technology, combined with the latest digital signal processing, will
achieve ten times higher temporal and spatial resolution than obtained by
present radars while simultaneously offering, for the first time, continuous
measurement capabilities. The flexibility of the EISCAT_3D system will allow the
study of atmospheric phenomena at both large and small scales unreachable by the
present systems.

The NeIC EISCAT_3D support (E3DS) project aids the future EISCAT_3D project in
planning and tendering their required e-infrastructure. This includes the
gathering of the EISCAT_3D use-cases and transforming these into a set of
standard requirements for the various components of the overall EISCAT_3D
computing e-infrastructure. The NeIC EISCAT_3D support project interacts with
EISCAT_3D and Grid and Cloud e-infrastructure projects. This interaction is
needed to match the expertise in EISCAT_3D with corresponding expertise in the
existing e-infrastructure projects in the various fields.

In effect, the E3DS project builds the collaborations among EISCAT_3D, national
e-infrastructure providers and network providers. The NeIC EISCAT_3D support
project contributes by making it possible to expand and enhance the usage of
existing Nordic e-infrastructures. Adding another large field of research into
the existing e-infrastructures can spread the load of resource and cost-sharing.
Ideally, the EISCAT_3D project will be able to use the e-infrastructure
transparently and focus on atmospheric science.
