---
layout: schedule
include: talk
title: "Science for Life Laboratory as a national life science infrastructure
  and collaborative hub: Towards a data-centric SciLifeLab"
speaker: olli-kallioniemi
session: s03
---

[Science for Life Laboratory (SciLifeLab)](www.SciLifeLab.se) started as a
collaborative research effort across four host universities (KTH Royal Technical
University, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm University and Uppsala University)
in 2010 and has thereafter evolved into a national center for molecular
biosciences after receiving national budgetary funding from 2013 onwards.
SciLifeLab is considered by the Swedish government as one of the three major
national research infrastructures, along with Max-IV and ESS. In 2016,
SciLifeLab had about 1200 associated scientists, a budget of about 400 MSEK (42
M€), and carried out over 3000 service projects for academic and
industrial/health care/other public users from all across Sweden. SciLifeLab
operates ten technology platforms: genomics, proteomics, metabolomics, single
cell biology, cellular and molecular imaging, molecular structures, chemical
biology, genome engineering, diagnostic development and drug discovery &
development. These platforms are further divided into 40 independent facilities.
In addition, we operate a bioinformatics platform along with a data office to
help users deal with the challenges of big datasets. As a major national
infrastructure, SciLifeLab produces many petabytes of data per year that need to
be analyzed, interpreted, integrated, archived and made publicly available. Part
of the data include highly sensitive human/medical data. This presentation will
highlight SciLifeLab infrastructures and research programs and will focus on the
current and future challenges in dealing with big biological and medical
datasets.
