---
layout: schedule
include: talk
title: Information Exploration Tools for Augmented Research and Knowledge Work
speaker: petri-myllymaki
session: s03
---

Current search engines are great tools for checking facts and looking up
information in situations where the user can easily formulate simple queries
that define well the target of the information seeking task, such as "Find
restaurants close to a given location" or "Find reviews of a given book". What
search engines are not good at is supporting complex information exploration and
discovery tasks that go beyond simple keyword queries. At the Helsinki Institute
for Information technology (HIIT), we have been combining for the last few years
the efforts of several research groups working in rather distinctive fields,
with the goal to create novel information-seeking and sense-making methods and
platforms for complex situations where the users may have difficulties in
expressing their information needs, and furthermore, where the search intent can
change and evolve in an iterative process where human can interact with the new
information revealed by the computer. Our approach is based on interactive
intent modelling, combining advances in machine learning, information retrieval,
visualisation and human-computer interaction, and our belief is that by
symbiotically combining the potential of human reasoning and the capability of
computers to process vast masses of data, we can better support human cognition
and free the researcher's or knowledge workerâ€™s time for more high-level
creative thinking, sense-making and collaboration.
