---
layout: schedule
include: talk
title: Yr and the Benefits of Open and Collaborative Numerical Weather Prediction
speaker: jorn-kristiansen
session: s06
slides: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=1GEShkMPbaMyn1Tm2RzCvJ9hrzYlP9UTvdfObYRC5_oY"
---

[Yr](www.yr.no), a collaboration between the Norwegian Meteorological Institute
and NRK (The Norwegian Broadcasting Company), has advanced the dissemination of
open weather information. Its impact since the start in 2007 is measurable: It
is the worlds 5th largest online weather service (largest outside USA); Peek
value of about 9.5 million unique users per week; On the order of 100 million
requests per day of weather data; Increased objective forecast skill; In Norway,
Yr is synonymous to weather. A novelty is its point specific API. The short-term
forecasts are updated 4 times per day from the regional numerical weather model
AROME-MetCoOp run in parallel on distributed high-performance computing
facilities. This operational collaboration between Swedish and Norwegian (and
recently Finland) national meteorological institutes is probably the first of
its kind in the world. The current configuration is an ensemble of 10 almost
identical forecasts generating large amounts of data to quantify the forecast
uncertainty. The forecast data are then post-processed both in terms of
correcting for local sources of error and product generation. Outside Norway the
forecasts are based on the ECMWF model. Good user-interfaces and feedback have
been essential for advancing the forecast quality, data and products. The
(almost) complete data set (real-time and archive) is made available on
thredds.met.no which is built for an interoperable, distributed and metadata
governed data distribution. It gives the opportunity for direct data streams
into user-systems. Yr has increased the effectiveness and automation of the
weather service and is an example of modernization of the public sector in
Norway. This again has increased the collaboration with various industries in
different research projects, all supporting the development of the production
chain for weather forecasting. Future opportunities lies in combining the
growing amount of user generated weather observations and information with the
numerical weather models for mutual benefit between the national weather
services and the industry.
